Right, date of interview is 14th of October 2014 and the interviewer is Catherine McShane.
The name of the interviewee is Tathan McShane and the interview is collecting stories for
Cardiff Carnival 25th Anniversary Project and the interview is in Penilan in Cardiff.
Could you spell your name just for the tape? T-A-T-H-A-N-M-C-S-H-A-N-E. Lovely. So what was
your involvement in Cardiff Carnival? Well I've been involved with a few carnivals over the years,
starting from when I was quite young, lots of dressing up, things like that. I think most of
the costumes were made by my mum during that period. I think most of my time spent in the
workshops etc. was probably running around with the other kids trying to make cause as much trouble
as possible and then there was a lot of dancing, lots of music and everything. I remember that from
the early days. My most vivid memories probably with the steel pans, you know,
when I was a little bit older, my teenage years, did a couple of years in the steel pans, some of
them in the pit sing rain which was a lot of fun emptying out the steel pans during halfway through
or more than once definitely. But that was very enjoyable as well, had a lot of fun doing that,
very into music at the time and it was a nice environment where anyone, you didn't really have
to be from a musical background but everyone got involved no matter what level or experience you
had. It was a very welcoming environment, especially for a musical one. There's always
the big costumes that you remember, all the colours and as the years have gone by, the bigger
the crowd, for me I remember the crowds always being bigger as the years went on. I don't remember
them so much when I was younger possibly because I was young but I felt like there's always a bigger
following, especially when it moved to the bay and there was a big deal down in the bay,
there's always a lot of people down there. So yeah, no, they were some of the lasting memories
in mind from the carnivals. Any particular themes or costumes you particularly remember? One of the
costumes I remember most of all was probably the dark riders. I think it was about the age,
it was probably about 13, 14 and that was always quite a cool one for me, I thought,
that's exciting. But equally, I remember my brother and I dressed up in green and white and my brother
was a sheep and I was a dragon and that was always good for me because he was a sheep and I was a
dragon so I win basically. So that was a lot of fun. Yeah, they were some of the costumes I
remember mostly. I don't know about any of the other costumes that much, I remember dressing up
as a monkey when I was young but nothing massively from my themes personally that stick out. Okay,
any memories about other people who were involved or people you met along the way?
Yeah, I mean what was nice is there was always sort of a consistency, there was always sort of
the same crowd around, you got to know people every year. There were new people every year but
there was a couple of stalwarts that you saw no matter what year, they were always there every day
in the workshop putting countless hours in to making sure it happened and that everyone had
their costumes and everything how they wanted to be. Also the same about the people that were
leading the practices, there was a lot of people that were there every year, whether it was dancing,
whether it was steel pans or anything else.
And in terms of the weather, you talked about the weather, how many times do you think you did it in the rain?
Did I do it in the dry? I mean I think that's probably the question, maybe twice I didn't. I
think there was a lot of, I think I had a lot of rainy experiences, maybe when I was a bit younger
I think I do remember too where they were dry. I think the majority were quite wet, some of them
wetter than others, I'll probably go with on the whole. So overall how would you rate your experience
of being involved in Cardiff Carnival? Oh I loved every minute of it, you know when I was younger
there was always experiences with lots of other children from all different backgrounds, everyone
got together, it was a very nice way to socialise, it was always a good atmosphere, always a good vibe
there. And then even on the day it was always building up and the excitement was always building
up and you'd go to the workshop more often and you'd see people were in there from morning till
night and it was worked up as almost like a mini Christmas in the summer when it was like this is
the day and then you'd have the build up in the morning, everyone would be a bit nervous, is it
going to rain, isn't it going to rain, or is it already raining? But no matter what everyone was
always having a good time, it was always a good laugh, always fun, I've never had any bad
experiences with it, it was always a positive. So how did your involvement end? I went to university.
Fair enough.
Maybe, I don't know, yeah probably that.
Okay thank you very much. Thank you.